README.md, before:

# UTF8Proc

Welcome to your new gem! In this directory, you'll find the files you need to be able to package up your Ruby library into a gem. Put your Ruby code in the file `lib/utf8_proc`. To experiment with that code, run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt.

TODO: Delete this and the text above, and describe your gem

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'utf8_proc'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install utf8_proc

## Usage

TODO: Write usage instructions here

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake test` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/nomoon/utf8_proc. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.


## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Update readme, bump version to 0.2.0 and tag for release.

README.md, after:

# UTF8Proc

A simple wrapper around [utf8proc](https://github.com/JuliaLang/utf8proc) for normalizing Unicode strings. Requires the `utf8proc` library and headers to be installed on your system. *(Packages are available. OSX: `brew install utf8proc`, Linux: `libutf8proc-dev` or `utf8proc-devel`)*

Currently supports UTF-8/ASCII string input and NFC, NFD, NFKC, NFKD, and NKFC-Casefold forms. Handles Unicode 9.0 and includes the current official full suite of 9.0 normalization tests.

Quick benchmarks against the [UNF](https://github.com/knu/ruby-unf) gem show it to be between the same speed (best-case) and ~2x slower (worst-case), averaging about ~1.2x slower on complex Unicode strings. The speed difference is more equal in NFC/NFD modes where mostly or already-normalized strings are used.

*(Note: UNF is generally a bit faster but currently officially supports Unicode 6.0 and does not pass all 9.0 normalization tests.)*

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'utf8_proc'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install utf8_proc

## Usage

```ruby
require "utf8_proc"

# Canonical Decomposition, followed by Canonical Composition
UTF8Proc.NFC(utf8_string)

# Canonical Decomposition
UTF8Proc.NFD(utf8_string)

# Compatibility Decomposition, followed by Canonical Composition
UTF8Proc.NFKC(utf8_string)

# Compatibility Decomposition
UTF8Proc.NFKD(utf8_string)

# Compatibility Decomposition, followed by Canonical Composition with Case-folding
UTF8Proc.NFKC_CF(utf8_string)

# Second argument may be any of: [:nfc (default), :nfd, :nfkc, :nfkd, :nfkc_cf]
UTF8Proc.normalize(utf8_string, form = :nfc)
```

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/nomoon/utf8_proc. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.


## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
